# OS-Simulation-CA
The goal is to implement and simulate bankers algorithm using multithreading, by only assigning resources by a process if it results in a safe state. Mutex locks are also used to ensure safe access to the shared data.
Note: Run the program in an empty directory for better creation of files and delete the files created before every execution.
1.	Getting data from the user regarding total number of processes, resources,  total available resources for each resource and currently allocated resources for each process.
2.	Check if the current table results in a safe state or not, if it is in a safe state, based on bankers algorithm all the processes ie, threads start running requesting for resources.
3.	If the current table is not in a safe state, the processes are not allowed to request for resources and program ends.
4.	When each process requests for resources a safe state   check using bankers algorithm executes and the resources are allocated only if the allocation results in the state being in a safe state. If not in a safe state, the request will not be  granted.
5.	All the safe state calculations which is using bankers algorithm is shown in different files created while the program is running, the number of files depends on the total number of processes specified by the user.


main function: Main function of the program takes all the details of processes and resources specified in step 1. And these details are used in getSafeSeq function which calculates, prints the safe  sequence  and also returns a Boolean value which tells whether the present state is in a safe state or not.

getSafeSeq function: This function takes PrintWriter object as a parameter to write the calculations to specific files. This function calculates and prints safe sequence if exists and also writes the calculation to files, this function is based on the bankers algorithm. This function also returns Boolean value based on whether safe sequence exists or not.

Process Specific Functions:

Constructor: constructor of process class initialises max requestable resources for that process and currently allocated resources for that process.  It also calls the calculateNeed function which calculates the need resources of the process based on the max requestable resources and currently allocated resources.

calculateNeed  function: This function uses max requestable resources array and currently allocated resources array to calculate the need resources array of that process.

requestResources function: This function takes requested resources (randomly generated by the thread function of each process such that the requested resources does not exceed the max requestable resources).
It creates copies of currently allocated resources, the need array of the process and currently available resources. These arrays  are then re-calculated based on the requested resources sent by the thread function.
Now if it results in a safe state (getSafeSeq function is called) , the changes made to the need array, currently allocated resources array and currently available resources array remain.
If it does not result in a safe state, the changes made to the need array, currently allocated resources array and currently available resources array are reverted back to the original state using the copies created at the beginning.
